in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of some of the
core compute resources
if we go ahead and look again at one of
those skills being assessed
we're now looking at this describe core
resources available in azure section
and now in this particular lesson we're
going to dive into vms app services some
of the container services and azure
virtual desktop
and then on some other videos as we go
through we'll look at these other core
types of resource
so that's the goal of what we're going
to actually look at now if we think back
in an earlier lesson
we kind of looked at the idea that there
were different layers and there were
different responsibilities when we
thought about those different aspects of
the system
now in all cases no matter what if we
remember
the fabric so the storage the network
the compute that was always the
responsibility in the cloud of the cloud
provider i.e azure
as was the hypervisor so no matter what
service we're using
this is always the responsibility
of azure
but then remember there were different
types of service in the cloud we could
think about well there was i as
infrastructure as a service
and our big example there was well hey
it's a virtual machine
and in that case the responsibility
there was remember mine so with i as
this was me me as the customer
this was all my responsibility
so let's start with the idea of a
virtual machine
now as we talked about previously
a vm is really the idea that we have all
of that hardware that infrastructure and
we're virtualizing it
we're giving ourselves some virtualized
some portion of that underlying system
now
if we look at just creating a vm just
super quickly so if we jump over
if we just go to the azure portal
and i can think about well i'll just go
to virtual machines and i can say create
a new virtual machine
we'll see hey we do this usual remember
everything has to live in a subscription
and one and only one resource group so
we could pick an existing one
we could create a brand new one
it has a name this is the name of the
resource in azure not necessarily the
name that has to be in the operating
system running within it
it has to exist in a specific region it
can't span regions it's a single
resource
we had that idea of availability options
and then we have this idea of the image
now there's windows images there's linux
images and the these are all coming from
the azure marketplace i could even
upload my own custom image
and then we have this idea of a size
and there's a huge number we can see
these letters d b
d c e f d all these different letters
and then within those letters you have
these numbers d2 d4 d8 d16 with
different amounts of cpu cores
different amounts of memory
and then some other aspects like storage
performance network performance so we
have these different numbers associated
with depending on the different type of
vm
and then the particular size of the vm
so what's all that about
so i can think about
if a virtual machine is hot virtualizing
the hardware
it has certain
attributes
for example i can think about that
virtual machine has a certain number of
virtual cores when we think about kind
of cpus it has a certain amount of
memory
and it has a certain storage performance
i can think in terms of maybe iops
in terms of throughput and then there'd
be network as well
there might be specialist services that
have gpus that might have nvme local
storage that have rdma network adapters
but
different types of workload need
different ratios for example if i'm a
database i want a lot of memory compared
to the number of virtual cores
whereas if i'm a compute service doing
processing i might want more virtual
cause compared to the amount of memory
or a general purpose i want just a
balanced mix so often there's kind of
this ratio of cause to memory
and then we have
specialist types and so that's why we
have these different skews these
different types of virtual machines
because they have those different ratios
if we jump over
we can actually see microsoft has a vm
sizes site and really what we're going
to care about right now is this idea
that there are these general purpose
types of virtual machines
compute optimized memory optimized
storage optimized gpu fpga accelerated
which are programmable pieces of
hardware high performance all these
different types
and exactly as we just talked about if i
looked for example at a compute
optimized
within that particular skew there are
different sizes we can see the number of
for example cpus
increase and then so does the memory
but a key point here is look at the
ratio
two to four so for every one virtual cpu
really virtual core i have two gibby
bytes of memory
because this is a compute optimized
if i looked at a general purpose and
i'll just pick one of the particular
skus here
and now we looked
well once again
we had the idea of vcpus and memory
but now the ratio is one to four for
every virtual core i have four gibby
bytes of memory
and then we have the idea of memory
optimized skus and you're probably going
to guess what we'll see here
well now the ratio
is one to eight
so what we would do is we want to
understand well what's the workload we
have what are the types of processing we
have running
and then we'll pick the right skew that
gives us the right balance of cores and
memory and maybe storage performance and
network performance to make sure hey
it's going to have the right portion for
the workload we want to do so we're not
optimize our spend what i don't want to
do is pick the wrong type of vm and have
a huge amount of memory idle or a huge
amount of cpu idle remember
i pay for these things i want to make
sure i optimize as much as possible
so we have these virtual machines we can
create and we kind of saw that
experience of creating it
now remember i said previously the thing
about virtual machines is there's a
whole set of other aspects that you're
responsible for
the patching the backup the dr the
antivirus the firewall
and although yes you're responsible for
those things as we go through and
actually create virtual machines
we'll actually see there's options for a
lot of these
for things to help you
so if i jump over for example to
management
there's actually aspects of this that
can do things like hey auto shutdown i
can do things like hey look enable
disaster recovery
it's going to use azure site recovery
hey automatically perform patching for
me
and then there's a whole bunch of actual
extensions
that i can go through
and extensions add other functionality
for example
there's a
an extension that uses anti-malware
there are extensions from third parties
so although yes it's my
responsibility
doesn't mean you're on your own there
are things to help you do that
so a virtual machine i think about as a
building block
it's a great fit if i think about i have
some existing workload maybe on premises
and i just want to move it to the cloud
virtual machine is going to seem very
familiar it's the same concept i have
full access to everything inside that
operating system i can configure it
however i want
if i want to do dr maybe from on
premises to the cloud
i'm probably going to do dr to a virtual
machine
many infrastructure services if i'm a
domain controller maybe a file server
hey i can use a vm file if i wanted to
install and run my own database i'm
going to put that in a vm but as we'll
see
azure has its own managed database
services which may be a better fit for
us
so these are a good choice if i need
management and direct access to the
operating system this is where these
really play
okay so then we build on that we have
the idea that's a single instance of a
resource a virtual machine
but if we remember the idea of the cloud
we want to do that scaling capability we
want to scale out i.e horizontally we
add and remove instances and most of the
time for resiliency we'll have multiple
instances of a service
well i could manually create a whole
bunch of vms i could maybe write some
script to look at something and stop and
start them
but why do that a better option
is we have something called a virtual
machine
scale set
so this is obviously building on top of
virtual machines but what this adds to
the picture
is now the idea is i specify a certain
template
so this is a template of which operating
system i want to use
i say specify a configuration
i.e the vm sku
the size extensions to add
and i can also specify scale
now that scale can be things like a
minimum number of instances
a maximum number of instances but also
auto scale criteria
if cpu is over 70 on average add two
instances if it's less than 30
remove an instance if a queue depth is
over 10 hey add an instance
so with vm scale sets it's actually
going to go and create those virtual
machines for me
and that's really a great solution when
i do have hey i have need multiple
instances
i don't want to manually create those
things that's kind of an ugly thing
this would do it for me so if i have a
requirement of
you need x number of virtual machines
all configured identically
and you want to be able to have some
scale conditions
chances are a virtual machine scale set
is going to be your answer for that
there's also services like azure batch
if i have a large scale parallel
workload or high-performance computing
then azure batch can actually go and
provision the virtual machines behind
the scenes and i can just submit a job i
can say hey i need this thing to run
azure batch will take care of all of
that for me i submit the job it queues
it up it executes it so for a really
large scale execution
azure batch may be a good answer
so these are really playing in that eye
as space that's really where they shine
now after is you start to get into the
idea of pads
remember that platform
as a service
and this is not quite as black and white
like often we will draw the line of the
idea that hey
i
for pass
no longer care about the os or the
runtime
that's completely managed for me
and it does depend a little bit
because the first type of paths we're
going to talk about is containers now if
i think about a vm
virtualize is the hardware it presents
to me a virtual set of hardware cpus
memory etc
with a container it's virtualizing the
operating system
so
through various operating system
components it's going to have isolated
name spaces so i have isolated set of
processes isolated networking i can have
resource controls to control how much
resource in terms of maybe a cpu and
memory i can actually use
but it now lets me have multiple
applications
sharing
an underlying container host inos
instance now because of that i can
create them much much faster
a vm still has a certain amount of time
it takes to start up because i have to
create the virtual machine i have to get
the os started up it may take minutes so
it's still fast but it's minutes
if i think hey these new micro services
that i need to spring up something
perform a calculation and then it
deletes minutes is way too long i just
want to think sub second
so containers can do that it can spring
up super super fast but we still have
isolation in that user mode space
so these are fantastic for those micro
services
now the way a container really works
behind the scenes is i have the idea of
a container image so there's some
container repository so i can think
about hey with containers
there's a container registry is the term
we use
in that container registry we have
container images
and that image may actually be made up
of multiple layers it might be built off
an os layer and then a runtime layer and
then i actually get my application so
there's lots of layers inside there
but then to actually use that we have to
create a container
so that container will actually often
run on a container host so we provision
a container host
so we create this idea of a sandbox when
i think about a container
it's creating this sandbox
but it's creating it in an operating
system there's now a container runtime
like a hypervisor virtualizes the
hardware container runtime virtualizes
the os
so there is now this container
runtime
that creates these sandboxes
and this image runs inside it so now
that container is up and running and the
whole point is i can have lots of these
sharing the same container runtime
so i have an underlying operating system
a container runtime a set of management
tools and i'm running these images
that's what a container is so i have
multiple
running on the same os instance i'll
contain a host but they have those
isolated name spaces for the processes
for the networking and resource controls
and containers really are the future if
you look at a lot of things people are
talking about for applications it's
i want to use containers
so let's think about the services in
azure that work with containers now
absolutely
i could just spin up my own i could
create vms i could install a container
runtime and i could do everything myself
but there are actual services in azure
that really do this for us so the first
one we think about
is azure container instances so we have
this idea
of a
c
i
and the reason i'm kind of drawing it at
this layer
is you still pick the container image so
that container image has an os and a
runtime
i'm not managing the operating system of
the environment
but i still have a little bit of gray
area that i pick the image which has an
os there's a little bit of management
i'm still performing but i really am
focusing on my application that i'm
putting inside that image
so aci is really designed hey i just
have a container i need to run
maybe a couple i can group them together
so they share a certain space
but with an azure container instance and
we can go ahead and look at one of these
all i really have to do
so let's switch over to aci
i don't say very much
i say hey i want to create a container
instance
all i'm going to do at this point is
once again you have to pick a resource
group always
i would give it a name for my container
so i'll just say test container one pick
a region
there are images
from the default registry
and these are showing me some of the
default sample ones i could use
i can base it on
windows no it's or linux
or maybe i've got my own container
registry which i have and i could use an
image that i've created
and then i pick a size
so remember that vm idea of a skew
and a size well once again these are
kind of similar it's giving me a certain
amount of cpu cores and memory but i get
a lot of flexibility here because this
is really a serverless solution i'm not
having to pick a vm and pay for it all
the time i'll just pay for when this
container runs
and then i can integrate with virtual
network
or i can just have a public facing
endpoint
and then there's a few other advanced
things but we're not going to worry
about that
so i really think about the idea of with
a container instance
it's just the idea that i want to run
a certain
container for a certain period of time
and just pay for it while it's running
so my first azure service when i think
about containers
is hey i use an azure container instance
so if i saw a question hey you need to
just run this image that exists i just
want to make it available
what could i use well an azure container
instance and again if you had maybe two
that need to share a space you can
contain create a container group
however
most of the time we're going to have a
more advanced scenario i need an
orchestration of the containers to
handle how they're placed on multiple
container hosts
to control richer networking to control
persistent storage connectivity to maybe
control some of the identities and other
extensions and policies that i want to
use
and so kubernetes
has really become the standard in
orchestration for containers
now yes i could again install kubernetes
myself in a whole bunch of virtual
machines
but azure has its own kubernetes service
so the next thing we kind of have here
is
azure
kubernetes service
aks now there's really two planes to
think about
with kubernetes
there's a management plane
the control plane
and then there's this idea of kind of a
data plane or where i actually run my
containers
with aks that management plane is fully
managed i don't really see it
it's off running somewhere it doesn't
running anything i can see in my
subscription but all of the components
that make kubernetes work
the api server the schedulers the xcd
database all of the other resource
managers
they're all often running somewhere we
don't see
what we see is well the containers have
to run somewhere so what it will do is
it will create container hosts
nodes
in our subscription
and what it actually does
well guess what it does for the that
data
it creates a vm scale set
so the nodes will run the containers aks
for all of the node pools it will create
a vm scale set which remember is built
on vms i get to pick the size i get to
pick the skew of that node pool so again
understanding that core building block
is really really useful because it
applies to so many things
so with azure kubernetes we get that
rich orchestration where i can have
deployment yaml files helm charts i can
even use things like git ops where it
goes in fetch as its configuration from
a git repository
i can do all of that with azure
kubernetes service so azure kubernetes
service
hey i need a full
rich orchestrated environment but i
still want it to be fully managed
so all i really focus on is the idea of
that deployment yaml file that defines
what containers i want to actually run
and behind the scenes it's going to go
and create
a whole bunch of nodes
which i can see but i'm not really doing
anything about them
where it will go and schedule the
execution of containers now it runs
those containers in things called pods
you don't really have to worry about
that but that's where the containers
it's kind of an envelope for the
container that's the unit aks uses so i
have this idea of pools
where i actually going to run my
containers
so if you see something like hey
you want to run this rich container
environment i need auto scale i need
integration with networking i need
persistent storage
as soon as you see the word containers
chances are unless it's you just need
one or two
you're going to use aks that really is
the answer
and then we get to things like azure app
service
so then we have app services
app services is all based around and
this was actually one of the original
azure services
i have something web-based
now it could just be a direct
web application i actually want to run
it might be something like an api
that i want to expose it might be a
mobile application there are special
features around ios and android for push
notifications using a custom social
provider whatever but if i have any of
those things
this is great so i can think about hey i
have something from the web i want to
expose an api i have something mobile
and i just kind of have my application
code
app service is phenomenal i'm really not
worrying about anything now i can
actually run containers on app service
as well
we're not really going to focus on that
with an app service what i can actually
do is i can pick
what is the run time i want
it is an underlying way it is still
using vms
what i pay for
is the number
and the skew and size of the vms that
the app service is using i have zero
access to it though i can't configure
things in their operating system the
same way i can't configure things in the
os for aks
yes they exist but they are fully
managed i have zero access to those
things i might be able to get certain
logging maybe get certain output but i
can't go in microsoft are responsible
for the os in all of these things
but if we go and look at one of these
if i jump over
and let's say app
service
an app service actually runs in the app
service plan
i'll just create a new app service
and here you can see hey do i want to
run some code and it integrates really
nicely with things like devops so i can
push to this very very powerfully
or i can actually this is where i can
say i actually just want to run a
container i can do linux or windows
but if i say code
i tell it what runtime stack so although
i don't have access to the os
it has a lot of flexibility in what it
actually supports so i could write my
application in any of these things
and easily move it over now you can see
because i picked.net hey do you want to
be windows or linux so not.net
can actually run on either one so i get
to pick
so it depends on what i'm using
as to which operating system
sometimes there's different stacks so
for java hey i can use java se jboss eap
7 or tomcat
so if i had maybe a web application
running on premises today on tomcat
yes today maybe it runs on a vm
but if i'm willing to do a little bit of
refactoring or maybe now i could run it
on an app service so i have a huge
amount of choices in the runtime even
though i have no access to
the os or the runtime i still get to
pick those things but i have to worry
about patching them or the security of
them that's just done for me by the app
service
now another aspect to app services this
is where we really start to move up the
chain
is actually we think i'm actually going
to use a different color for this
we think of serverless
now the whole point of serverless is all
of the things we have talked about so
far
vms and vm scale sets that's obvious
we're talking about some unit of work we
pay for
but as we saw even
aks
we're going to have node pools which we
pick the sku and the size app service
when we create it we pick the app
service plan where we pick a sku and a
size and it has things like auto scale
and up maybe deployments lots other
features
but i'm still paying for essentially
units of vms
serverless we don't so serverless is
still pairs but it's that highest level
because we're not paying for any unit of
vm
we pay for the work that is being done
now there's really two key types we have
functions
and we have logic apps
and both of these can run in that
consumption model where i just pay for
what i'm using but functions can also if
you had an app service plan
i can also execute them within an app
service plan as well as part of an app
service so i do have that choice
so here i have some code i want to run
and these are event driven something's
going to happen
that tells me to fire these things off
it could be hey something's written to a
storage account it could be i get a
restful api call it could be a timer
event and maybe i'm manually executing
something triggers it to perform the
work now it functions i'm writing code
when i create a function
i am
essentially
going to give it some code
so if i say hey i want to create a new
function app
what we're actually doing you see i've
got a number of different ones here
if i create a new function app
notice once again a function can run
sync from a container everything can be
containers today
but i pick a runtime stack so i could
run it from net nodejs python java
powershell core or some custom handler
and i pick a version
so for me i'm a big powershell person so
if i were to run a powershell script
maybe on a schedule or when some event
happens i could use a function for that
and then i'll just pay for it so the
point is here i'm writing code
logic apps
uh a big push around the idea of that
kind of citizen developer
codeless solutions
so if i go and look at a logic app this
is a visual designer
and what we can do with logic apps once
again there's some trigger
but these are more stateful there's some
flow that maintains state for that
entire flow
and then they have these graphical
designer to drag and drop different
components this is taking its time let's
jump over and then come back
there we go you can see here i've got
this graphical flow hey a blob is added
create a uri
caller http call and then delete the
blob so i'm just dragging and dropping
these things on
but also
there are built-in templates
so
let's actually scroll down some of the
templates
and that's why i'm saying interesting
and fun
daily reminder hey based on a schedule
then i want to send kind of an email if
a new file is created in dropbox copy it
to one drive
email yourself tweets that contain a
certain keyword
so there's all these plugins
that i can use i just drag and drop
these onto my canvas
so the whole goal around all of this
is that i don't really need to be a
developer to use these
so these are both serverless so again if
you see this requirement i need to
perform this piece of work when
something happens and i want to minimize
my cost and just pay for the work done
if i'm writing the code
azure functions
if the emphasis is on hey someone tweet
something or something drops and i don't
want to have to code instead i want to
use built-in connectors hey logic apps
are great for that
and then finally and this isn't i think
in the same realm as this but it's being
lumped in with the skills assessed in
the same way
there's azure virtual desktop
so all of these things and the reason i
think it's a little bit different
is all of these ios and pads they're not
delivering a business function
they're something that you build on you
are still responsible for your app
um
there's something i have to add on top
it doesn't deliver a business function
imagine a scenario i want remote
desktops from my machine i want to
remotely connect and get a full desktop
or maybe just an application published
to me
well just if you think about what is
required for that experience
well i have to have some idea
of there's some machine running some
host
that will actually serve up my desktop
then there's actually a whole set of
other management layer i need things
like a broker
that's going to control well
as users come in
which host do i actually connect them to
there's the idea of a remote desktop
gateway
because i want to encapsulate that
incoming rdp
inside that can travel over the internet
so the rd gateway enables me to do that
there's other databases there's feeds
there's web feeds that i can control
there's all these different elements
that i have to manage i have to maintain
these hosts maybe they're running
servers maybe they're running a client
operating system maybe there's a pool
maybe there's personal
so the whole point of this is azure
virtual
desktop provides a complete managed
solution just like aks i do not see this
part
this management plane is all just done
for me
what i get in my subscription are the
hosts that people will actually connect
to and the reason we want them in our
subscription is i could then connect
them to like my virtual networks i can
connect them to other services i can
have the profiles mapped into it so
azure virtual desktop is doing two
things it can provide me with a complete
desktop experience
so user gets like a full start button
and then they run whatever they want or
it can actually publish particular
applications
so here maybe on a mobile device it's
super useful to just bring up a certain
app or even hey i'm running a desktop
and i want it seamlessly integrated with
my main desktop i can do that with azure
virtual desktop so this is basically
think about it like a desktop as a
service offering so those are available
as well you might hear the term windows
that's an even simpler version when i
don't worry about any of this anymore i
just pay on a per user basis to get a
desktop in the cloud it's always
personal it's linked one to one
and there's different skus business and
enterprise business goes up to 300 users
and it's azure id joined enterprise is
unlimited number of users um it can be
azure id or regular adjoin but it can
integrate with your existing networks
and there's a whole set of richer
functionality custom images but you
might hear that term as well
but that's why i think about some of the
the key kind of services
that we have so we have vms i want to
kind of lift and shift something i need
direct full access to the os virtual
machine scale sets i need multiple of
them to provide that service but it's
going to create them for me
if i have containers if i just have one
or two and i don't need any rich
orchestration i can use azure container
instances if i want to be able to submit
deployment declarative files and have
rich networking and storage integration
and extensions and policy azure
kubernetes services
and then we have azure app services
which run on app service plans which can
be
web-based applications apis i want to be
able to offer out there
mobile apps increase functionality for
notifications and other things and then
if i just want to be able to offer
desktops or published applications
we have
azure virtual desktop